Paper (#504)
geodynamics/burnman: paper/paper.md

temperatures can be provided by a wide array of different equations of state.
The averaging of the endmember properties within solutions and composite
materials can also be achieved in several different ways.

# Statement of need
Earth Scientists are interested in a number of different material properties,
including seismic velocities, heat capacities and density as a function of
pressure and temperature. Many of these properties are connected to each
other by physical laws. Building models of individual phases to compute
these properties and checking them can be time-consuming and prone to error,
so it is desirable to have well-tested and benchmarked software that
provides convenient functions to calculate the properties of complex
composite materials, and to fit new models.

`BurnMan` is an open source, extensible mineral physics toolbox designed to
calculate the physical properties of natural materials
within the Earth and other planets. The toolbox has a class-based, modular
design that allows users to calculate many low-level properties that
are not accessible using existing codes, and to combine various tools in

> novel, creative ways.

Reviewer: I think this paragraph should be part of the summary above (as a second paragraph). According to the JOSS website the summary should:
```
A summary describing the high-level functionality and purpose of the software for a diverse, non-specialist audience.
```
Which is exactly the contrent of this paragraph.

I think the rest of the text in the problem statement remains in good shape even if this paragraph is moved up.

Author: Thanks, I agree :)

(0.3307) as Earth. `BurnMan` ensures that the gravity and pressure
profiles satisfy hydrostatic equilibrium, and allows different layers
to have different thermal profiles, including an isentropic profile
with thermal boundary layers
(shown here for the upper and lower mantles and for the core).
The computed geotherm is compared to several from the literature
[@Stacey:1977;@Brown:1981;@Anderson:1982;@Alfe:2007;@Anzellini:2013].
\label{fig:zog}](figures/zog.png)

`BurnMan` also provides many utility classes and functions, including
those required to undertake bulk and phase chemical calculations,
to aid preparation and analysis of experiments.
An example that uses bulk and phase compositions from samples
to estimate phase proportions is shown in \autoref{fig:mars_fit}.

![Mineral phase proportions in the mantle of Mars, estimated from
high pressure experimental data [@Bertka:1997]. Weighted residuals
(misfits) are also shown, indicating that the majority of experimental
run products are consistent with the reported starting composition.
\label{fig:mars_fit}](figures/fit_mars_experiments.png)

`BurnMan` does not attempt to replicate Gibbs minimization codes,

> of which there are many (PerpleX, HeFESTo, TheriakDomino, FactSAGE and MageMin).

Reviewer: I think we need references for all codes we list by name. The point of JOSS is to improve the citation of codes and reviewers will likely be picky about this.

Author: Yes, definitely, thanks for the nudge.

Instead, it provides two methods to deal with the problem of

> thermodynamic equilibrium: (1) reading in a P-T table of precalculated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
thermodynamic equilibrium: (1) reading in a pressure-temperature table of precalculated
```

calculations and Zack Geballe, Motohiko Murakami, Bill McDonough,
Quentin Williams, Wendy Panero, and Wolfgang Bangerth for helpful discussions.

BurnMan was initiated at, and follow-up research support was received through,
CIDER (NSF FESD grant 1135452). The authors have been supported by the
Computational Infrastructure for Geodynamics initiative (CIG),
through the National Science Foundation (U.S.) under Award No. EAR-0949446 and EAR-1550901.
They have also received support from The University of California-Davis.

Robert Myhill was supported by the Science and Technologies Funding Council
(U.K.) under Award No. ST/R001332/1 and through the
Natural Environment Research Council (U.K.) Large Grant MC-squared
(Award No. NE/T012633/1). He would also like to thank M. Ghiorso for useful
discussions and B. Watterson for the concept of Planet Zog.

Timo Heister was partially supported by NSF Award DMS-1522191, DMS-1820958,
OAC-1835452, by the Computational Infrastructure in Geodynamics initiative
(CIG), through the NSF under Award EAR- 0949446 and EAR-1550901 and
The University of California – Davis, and by Technical Data Analysis, Inc.
through US Navy SBIR N16A-T003.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rene Gassmoeller and Juliane Dannberg were supported by NSF Awards EAR-1925677 and
EAR-2054605, and by the Computational Infrastructure for Geodynamics (CIG) through the
NSF under Award EAR-0949446 and EAR-1550901 and the University of California – Davis.
```
